In the last lecture I showed you that tool called thinker which really used to interact with our models
directly from the terminal.
And we've also created our first model for our application that is using their blog and their score
post table by convention.
We've also managed to change the database table because it wasn't correct with their conventions.
Now let's rerun that tinker and play around more with the model you might remember that we tried to
read all the records from the blog posts table using our model all method and it was empty.
So now let's see how we can create a brand new blog post so we can do that by just instantly eating
a brand new instance of the blog post model.
So now we have an empty blog post mind that just creating this new class doesn't save anything into
the database.
If you would refresh this you can see that there is no data inside the table.
And now how we will modify their specific columns of the blog post so we can access them by using the
properties so the property names correspond to the column names of the blog post table so we can manage
title and content.
We want to manage ideas.
We want modified because it is being ultimately assigned to our record when the record is being saved
into the database and actually the same is we've created out and updated that.
But we'll get to that later.
So let's go back and said the title to new title
and do the same with that content said it us new content.
Now let's see how our post model looks like.
So it has two attributes the title and content.
And now to actually store this model inside the database we have to call that blog post model safe method.
So every eloquent model has this method.
So every time you modify a property of the existing model or of the brand new model that you create
you have to call save so the result is true.
So apparently it was successful.
Now let's browse the contents and you can see that we have also generated ideas.
And also the created update is the current date and the updated that is also the current date.
It wasn't changed yet.
Now the title and the content is as we said it.
So this is fine.
Now let's go back to the Visual Studio code and enlarge the terminal.
So let's try fetching the blog posts again using the old static method of the blog post model.
So now we should see that the collection contains one element and that's correct.
And we have the exact data that we have previously added but if you would like to fetch only one model
note the collection of everything that's eaten inside the table you can do that like that.
So let's add a new variable and call it maybe post two.
And now we can use our block post model and it has a method to find so find.
We'll try to fetch the model the data from the database using the primary key in our case by default.
The primary key is called I.D. and it is an output incremented number.
So let's try to fetch it and we can see we are successful and we were able to fetch our blog post model
by I.D. now Let's echo what we have inside the blog post that we have fudged using a defined method
and see how we can modify it.
So it's pretty simple we just modify the property that corresponds to the column name.
So let's modify the title to be modified.
Title also you can see that this doesn't do anything when we refresh.
The title is still new title and we have to save it first.
So let's call save on the post too.
And now when we will refresh we can see that the title is modified title.
But another interesting thing is you can see that the created out and updated art differs.
So the updated art is the later date and that's what I said that that's when I said that Lara will be
managing those two columns automatically for us.
It actually does.
So the way it works I won't go into much detail but the way it works it just checks whether those two
columns are defined inside your model and they are because we created a migration for them
using that timestamps method.
And those column names are also configurable but let's not worry about that.
But in general it works started checks if those columns exist and when they do when you save or update
the model it updates those days inside the database too.
Now let's go back to the Visual Studio code and create our first or actually second blog post.
So let's do post free equals new app blog post and we will also set up title to be random or whatever
doesn't really matter and the content to be whatever.
Now let's see what we will get when we will call the all method of the model.
So let's assign it to posts
and of course we have only one model because we haven't saved it.
So now let's first save our new model and now run it again post equals up blog post Oh and now you see
we have two models.
So when we are fetching the elements using all it will fetch us all elements but there is also another
way we can fetch for example if you would like only those two models you can fetch them using the blog
post model.
Find a method.
But this time we won't specify the key as the only parameter so the primary key.
Which means that Ida property but we can also use array.
So if you write something like this it will fetch us the collection of all the models or the records
that match the primary key with those two parameters.
As I previously said we can also work with this collection objects like we've a plain array so you can
see it has two elements.
So we should be able to access the individual elements like you would access an array.
So the first element with the index 0 should be the blog post with I.D. 1.
And of course it is working the same with the blog post with I.D. too which has index 1 us in a typical
array.
And obviously if I try to use a index out of French we get on notice.
Now we can also iterate over the collection as you would do over our normal array so we can use for
each.
So do for each post US post and we'll just echo the title.
So we use this special syntax to call the properties of objects inside string.
So we have post title surrounded with currently braces and other new line character.
Mind that you have to use double quotes for this to work and the semicolon and you can see we have titles
of all of our models printed.
Finally in this lecture I will tell you about some of the commands that the collections have.
So let's see what's inside the posts so you can remember that we have access the post by indexes like
you would do with an array but it's not entirely an array.
It also has its methods because it's basically a peach pea object.
So one of the most useful methods that you will use very often is the first method to get the first
element of the collection.
So let's call it now and you can see that we have the blog post with ideas 1.
There is also our last method so we can get.
Last element of their collection and also finally will do a very simple query.
Of course I will explain queries in detail later.
But now let's create a very simple query so we'll access our block post object and we'll do our work
query
so we would like to fetch older elements.
Which title is random and we know that we have one.
So after writing a query to get the actual elements we should call that get made out because otherwise
we'll get an instance of the query object.
So that's not what we want.
So let's see what will this return.
And you can see that we have a collection object returned and it is.
It contains one blog post which actually has this random title and that's where you can for example
use the get if you create queries so you fetch something more complicated that just all the records
from a table.
So let's write it again.
So you would do up blog post where title is random.
Now we use gets to actually execute the query and you can even change it with the first because the
GED will execute the query and return the collection object.
So now we can call first on the collection to get not the collection object as a result of this but
instead the model.
So let's see.
And you can see that we executed our first simple query where we found a blog post which has a random
title.